hey everyone I'm down here in my studio
painting getting ready for art Expo New
York and I figured I'd make another vlog
about getting ready for New York I'm
working on this painting now and just
letting things dry just taking a break
but I was thinking I've been doing my
paintings a little bit different lately
I've been adding a lot of texture to my
paintings I used to hate adding texture
I'm not sure why I always wanted to just
make it really flat and really blended
so you didn't see any bumps or anything
like that but my are trapped out of New
York was telling me once that a lot of
times when people go to buy paintings
they look to see how much paint is on
the canvas and kind of determined that a
painting has more value if there's more
paint on the canvas or if it's got a lot
more texture which I find interesting
because if you look at a lot of the old
masters from the Renaissance and things
like that everything have you ever seen
one of their paintings it's like glass
there's no texture at all it's really
really smooth but so you asked me you
know would you try painting with some
texture and at first I said no and then
I said I'll try it but so that's what
I'm doing I'm doing a little more
texture and I'm actually I kind of like
it it's kind of neat to go up to the
painting and you can kind of feel the
texture on the canvas and it does give
it a different quality kind of like a 3d
sculpture effect in a way and I can see
the point where it might look like it
has more value because I was more paint
on it but I'm still I still really would
rather paint
nice flat paintings but something I'm
experimenting with but I'm using this
golden gel medium because I paint with
acrylics and acrylics dry really flat so
you kind of need something to add
texture to the painting and so I've been
using this it's the heavy gel medium
which is pretty cool it's just see like
grab my pallet knife here one of them
it's just kind of like a almost like a
paste I guess it's gel but in it dries
clear so I have paint all through mine
but when you mix it in with your paint
it takes on the same color it does
lighten it a little bit it says it's not
supposed to but it does lighten it a
little bit but you can extend like if
you have a really expensive paint like
cadmium red or a true cerulean blue
those are expensive paints you can mix
in the medium and make the paint go
further or you can make it so you have
texture because it it dries with Peaks
which means it just you know it stands
out from the canvas rather than drying
flat so I've been using that and I'm
working on this painting now trying to
add in some texture through the clouds
and grass and everything so do you use
texture in your paintings and do you
prefer it or do you not prefer it I'm
curious as to what everybody's opinion
is the opinion of people who sell art is
more texture the better it looks more
valuable which is crazy it's just
another little peek inside the art world
what galleries and art reps and artists
talk about is you know more texture more
money I guess
but anyway curiousity as to your opinion
so let me know down in the comments
below and I'm gonna get back to work
here and try to finish this painting
tonight so thanks for watching and I'll
see you again soon